PRPs/templates/prp_base.md, before:

## Purpose
Template optimized for AI agents to implement features with sufficient context and self-validation capabilities to achieve working code through iterative refinement.

## Core Principles
1. **Context is King**: Include ALL necessary documentation, examples, and caveats
2. **Validation Loops**: Provide executable tests/lints the AI can run and fix
3. **Information Dense**: Use keywords and patterns from the codebase
4. **Progressive Success**: Start simple, validate, then enhance
5. **Global rules**: Be sure to follow all rules in CLAUDE.md

---

## Goal
[What needs to be built - be specific about the end state and desires]

## Why
- [Business value and user impact]
- [Integration with existing features]
- [Problems this solves and for whom]

## What
[User-visible behavior and technical requirements]

### Success Criteria
- [ ] [Specific measurable outcomes]

## All Needed Context

### Documentation & References (list all context needed to implement the feature)
```yaml
# MUST READ - Include these in your context window
- url: https://github.com/langchain-ai/deepagents
  why: This is the repo that the current deep agents code base is cloned from
  
- dir: /home/ola/dev/netboxdev/
  why: This is the location of the netbox mcp server that provides readonly mcp tools to the deep agents application.
  
- doc: https://github.com/Deployment-Team/netbox-mcp/wiki/Bridget-Auto-Context 
  important: This documentation covers a version of the mcp server that covers CRUD tools. The version of this netbox mcp server ONLY handles read only tools.

- doc: examples/netbox/NETBOX_AGENT_TECHNICAL_REPORT.md
  important: This documentation covers the logic governing the NetBox Dynamic Agent Architecture and Operation

- url: https://www.anthropic.com/news/prompt-caching
  why: This contains information regarding cluade api caching

- url: https://docs.claude.com/en/docs/build-with-claude/prompt-caching
  why: This contains more information regarding cluade api caching

```

## Final validation Checklist
- [ ] All tests pass: `uv run pytest tests/ -v`
- [ ] Manual test successful: [specific curl/command]
- [ ] Error cases handled gracefully
- [ ] Logs are informative but not verbose
- [ ] Documentation updated if needed

---

## Anti-Patterns to Avoid
- ❌ Don't create new patterns when existing ones work
- ❌ Don't skip validation because "it should work"  
- ❌ Don't ignore failing tests - fix them
- ❌ Don't use sync functions in async context
- ❌ Don't hardcode values that should be config
- ❌ Don't catch all exceptions - be specific

Commit message:

feat: Implement cross-domain NetBox agent with strategic coordination
This implementation extends the NetBox agent to handle cross-domain queries
spanning multiple NetBox domains (DCIM, IPAM, Tenancy, Virtualization) while
maintaining backward compatibility with simple and intermediate queries.

Key enhancements:
- Created centralized prompts module (prompts.py) with strategic instructions
- Added strategic think() tool for query analysis and planning
- Added optional store_query() tool for context management
- Implemented 5 domain-specific sub-agents with precise tool distribution:
  * dcim-specialist: 37 tools for physical infrastructure
  * ipam-specialist: 8 tools for network addressing
  * tenancy-specialist: 3 tools for organizational structure
  * virtualization-specialist: 12 tools for virtual infrastructure
  * system-specialist: 2 tools for monitoring and metadata
- Added comprehensive parallel execution pattern documentation
- Created test_query_classification.py for validation
- All 62 NetBox tools properly distributed among specialists
- Main agent retains full tool access for simple queries and fallback

The implementation follows the deepagents framework's four pillars:
1. Detailed system prompts with behavioral examples
2. Planning tools (think, write_todos) for complex operations
3. Sub-agents with context isolation for specialized tasks
4. Virtual file system for persistent context

Query handling:
- Simple queries: Direct tool use, no sub-agents
- Intermediate queries: Sequential tools, minimal coordination
- Cross-domain queries: Strategic thinking → Planning → Parallel delegation

This enables the agent to efficiently handle complex infrastructure queries
like "Show tenant infrastructure across all sites" by coordinating multiple
domain specialists in parallel while maintaining high performance for
simple lookups.

PRPs/templates/prp_base.md, after:

## Purpose
Template optimized for AI agents to implement features with sufficient context and self-validation capabilities to achieve working code through iterative refinement.

## Core Principles
1. **Context is King**: Include ALL necessary documentation, examples, and caveats
2. **Validation Loops**: Provide executable tests/lints the AI can run and fix
3. **Information Dense**: Use keywords and patterns from the codebase
4. **Progressive Success**: Start simple, validate, then enhance
5. **Global rules**: Be sure to follow all rules in CLAUDE.md

---

## Goal
[What needs to be built - be specific about the end state and desires]

## Why
- [Business value and user impact]
- [Integration with existing features]
- [Problems this solves and for whom]

## What
[User-visible behavior and technical requirements]

### Success Criteria
- [ ] [Specific measurable outcomes]

## All Needed Context

### Documentation & References (list all context needed to implement the feature)
```yaml
# MUST READ - Include these in your context window
- url: https://github.com/langchain-ai/deepagents
  why: This is the repo that the current deep agents code base is cloned from

- url: https://github.com/langchain-ai/deep-agents-from-scratch/blob/main/notebooks/4_full_agent.ipynb
  why: This will provide guidance on how to develop multi domain netbox queries
- dir: /home/ola/dev/netboxdev/

- url: /home/ola/dev/netboxdev/netbox-mcp-docs/Cross-Domain-Queries.md
  why: A list of Cross Domain Queries

  why: This is the location of the netbox mcp server that provides readonly mcp tools to the deep agents application.
  
- doc: https://github.com/Deployment-Team/netbox-mcp/wiki/Bridget-Auto-Context 
  important: This documentation covers a version of the mcp server that covers CRUD tools. The version of this netbox mcp server ONLY handles read only tools.

- doc: examples/netbox/NETBOX_AGENT_TECHNICAL_REPORT.md
  important: This documentation covers the logic governing the NetBox Dynamic Agent Architecture and Operation


```

## Final validation Checklist
- [ ] All tests pass: `uv run pytest tests/ -v`
- [ ] Manual test successful: [specific curl/command]
- [ ] Error cases handled gracefully
- [ ] Logs are informative but not verbose
- [ ] Documentation updated if needed

---

## Anti-Patterns to Avoid
- ❌ Don't create new patterns when existing ones work
- ❌ Don't skip validation because "it should work"  
- ❌ Don't ignore failing tests - fix them
- ❌ Don't use sync functions in async context
- ❌ Don't hardcode values that should be config
- ❌ Don't catch all exceptions - be specific
